Document first steps and how to setup github actions with Conductor (#109)
packagist/private-packagist-docs: docs/conductor/getting-started.md

# Getting started with Conductor
##

> Conductor will group and schedule automated Dependency Updates on your own Continuous Integration platform. If the update succeeds, Conductor sends you a pull request to your code hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) with the changed composer.lock file and, if necessary, other files modified by Composer plugins or scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conductor will group and schedule automated dependency updates on your own Continuous Integration platform. If the update succeeds, Conductor sends you a pull request to your code hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) with the changed composer.lock file and, if necessary, other files modified by Composer plugins or scripts.
```

Not sure how I looked at this sentence 2x already and didn't notice

Author: haha. even I had the diff and didnt see it!

# Getting started with Conductor
##

> Conductor will group and schedule automated Dependency Updates on your own Continuous Integration Platform. If the update succeeds, Conductor sends you a pull request to your code hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) with the changed composer.lock file and, if necessary, other files modified by Composer plugins or scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conductor will group and schedule automated Dependency Updates on your own Continuous Integration platform. If the update succeeds, Conductor sends you a pull request to your code hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) with the changed composer.lock file and, if necessary, other files modified by Composer plugins or scripts.
```

To use Conductor:

> - [subscribe to the waitlist](http://packagist.com.lo/features/conductor)

Reviewer: List entries should start with a capital letter to match rest of the docs

> - subscribe to a Private Packagist Subscription (either Cloud or Self-Hosted)

Reviewer: Wonder if for now, this should say, "once approved, subscribe..." to not give them the impression that they can subscribe and immediately get access

Author: yeah, had no nice way to say: "you need a Private Packagist subscription" here. Because looking at the list there are a few using Private Packagist already that were subscribed.

Any ideas?

Reviewer: I mean, you don't need a subscription to try it out. Can do so during a trial for instance

Author: ah yes. "Subscribe" is missleading, yes

- get access to Conductor from [Private Packagist Support](mailto:contact@packagist.com)

> - add a workflow to your Continuous Integration Platform to run Composer updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- add a workflow to your Continuous Integration platform to run Composer updates
```

- verify the setup

## First steps

Once you have a Private Packagist Subscription and Conductor is enabled for your subscription, log into your Private Packagist organization and click on the Updates tab in the main navigation.  

> Conductor will list all Packages with a composer.lock file and the Private Packagist repository added to the composer.json.    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conductor will list all packages with a composer.lock file and the Private Packagist Composer repository added to the composer.json.    
```

If you do not see your package, follow the instructions on your organization page to add the custom repository to the composer.json of your package.  

Most convenient way to set up Conductor is to configure your CI in the Private Packagist UI. The manual steps are outlined below:

## Create a workflow on your CI

### GitHub Actions

Create a new GitHub Actions workflow in `.github/workflows/dependency-update.yaml` of your package repository using the template below:

CONDUCTOR_GITHUB_ACTIONS_WORKFLOW

> - adjust the PHP Version used in the "Install PHP" step
> - commit and push the workflow to your main branch of your package repository
> - review the commit and push method: the workflow needs to be able to push commits to a new branch

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Adjust the PHP Version used in the "Install PHP" step
1. Commit and push the workflow to your main branch of your package repository
1. Review the commit and push method: the workflow needs to be able to push commits to a new branch
```
Think an ordered list here makes more sense. Should revisit the other lists too

Reviewer: I don't understand what the last step is/means

Create a secret `COMPOSER_AUTH` with the Composer authentication configuration [as described here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/authentication-for-private-packages.md#authentication-using-the-composer-auth-environment-variable) to access Private Packagist.  

> We recommend to create a dedicated authentication token with update access. You can copy n paste the contents for the secret from the Private Packagist UI while creating the token in "Settings" -> "Authentication Tokens". Remove the single quotes around the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend to create a dedicated authentication token with update access. You can copy and paste the contents for the secret from the Private Packagist UI while creating the token in "Settings" -> "Authentication Tokens". Remove the single quotes around the value.
```

![Create Authentication Token](/Resources/public/img/docs/conductor/authentication-token.png)

The contents of the variable should look like 

> ```json
> {"http-basic": {"repo.packagist.com": {"username": "token", "password": "packagist_out_73a81c7eb525b13b6bc22a410b2146e78a38b324f609bf1158c583c704f64cbdd349" }}}
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
{"http-basic": {"repo.packagist.com": {"username": "token", "password": "packagist_out_73a81c7eb525b13b6bc22a410b2146e78a38b324f609bf1158c583c704f64cbdd349" }}}
```

Not sure I would post an actualy token here or at least make sure it is 100% invalid where the checksum doesn't work

Conductor needs to verify your setup before you can [start receiving Pull Requests](#how-scheduling-works). 

## How scheduling works

- Go to your package on the updates tab in your Private Packagist organization 
- Click on the name of your package

The list shows groups of all available updates to be scheduled. Each group of updates is called a task. Conductor will schedule only one task at a time. All others are waiting for the task on top of the list to be successful or paused.  
Once Conductor schedules a task it sends a payload to your CI Platform that triggers the workflow you just added. The payload contains the commands Composer will run to update a group of dependencies from your package.

The workflow consists of several steps:

- code checkout

> - php setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Setup PHP
```

If you create lists, try to make sure all entries follow the same structure. Mixing things like `code checkout` with `Send the status of the workflow to Private Packagist via cURL` makes it a bit hard to read. Think in cases like this it's nice to have full sentences that start with a verb.

Author: Thanks, that's a good hint. Will add this to my writing checklist

- Composer install
- run Composer update commands from the payload
- commit changed files (composer.lock, ...)
- push commit to a new branch

> - Send the status of the workflow to Private Packagist via curl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Send the status of the workflow to Private Packagist via cURL
```

Author: actually, looking at https://curl.se/
I am not sure if this is the correct brand name? :)

> If the update succeeded, Private Packagist creates a pull request for the just pushed commit. The PR description will contain a reviewable list of all dependencies and parts of their changelogs.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the update succeeded, Private Packagist creates a pull request for the just pushed commit. The PR description will contain a reviewable list of all dependencies and parts of their changelogs.  
```

As this isn't part of the description yet, maybe say that it integrates with the "Update Review" feature to make the changes easy to review?

When you reviewed the changes and merged the PR, Conductor schedules the next task.    

> If you close the PR, the task will be paused and Conductor schedules the next task. This is the same effect as using the "Pause" button in the UI.  

Reviewer: Should probably explain that this means that we won't attempt to update to those particular dependency versions anymore.

If you want to, you can schedule any other task of the list, by clicking on it's name and using the button "Schedule now to create a PR".  

Tasks fixing security issues have a higher priority. They will be moved to the top of the list and scheduled right away.  

## Verify your CI setup

![Task list with verification task](/Resources/public/img/docs/conductor/verification-task-list.png)

Right now all tasks are waiting for the CI verification task on top of the list. Conductor will not start with the regular schedule until this verification task was successful.

> The verification task will only execute `composer update nothing` and will not result in a PR to be sent to your Code Hosting Platform.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The verification task will only execute `composer update nothing` and will not result in a PR to be sent to your code hosting platform.  
```

- Click on the task "Verify the continuous integration setup"

> - Use the "Schedule now" button to test your setup

Reviewer: This implies that they have to manually trigger this but don't we automatically schedule the task?

Author: Yeah, two thoughts about this:

1. When we do it like that (not automatically) then we teach them to schedule a (regular) task, too.   And look at the logs of a task.

2. They are then able to see the restart button (which they probably need) right away, and we dont need to navigate them to the task details page.

And yes. Would probably stop doing this automatically. At least not on the button that says "Save"

Reviewer: Maybe we need to have an additional step after save, which asks the user to confirm that they have set up the action?

Reviewer: Regarding the log/debug. Not sure if the person who set this up will be the same person that reviews/approves PRs and interacts with Conductor on a regular basis. So not sure how beneficial this is.

Author: I guess we just have to learn how people set this up.

Author: https://trello.com/c/51Mq8cEn/4583-conductor-schedule-the-ci-verification-task-in-a-second-step

Author: Feel free to change the docs here, when this changes.

I think we really have to keep this up to date with the latest changes in the UI now

You can see the state of your task and last events for the task. Once the task is executed, atch your CI Platform: 
You should see a run for the just added workflow. Examine the run if it succeeded.

> When you ran into errors, troubleshoot and fix. You can trigger the workflow again by restarting the task. The restart button is available after the first execution.

Author: yeah, good hint. Happy-pathed-it

# Getting started with Conductor
##

Conductor will group and schedule automated Dependency Updates on your own Continuous Integration platform. If the update succeeds, Conductor sends you a pull request to your code hosting platform (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket) with the changed composer.lock file and, if necessary, other files modified by Composer plugins or scripts.

To use Conductor:

> - You need to be approved for early access to conductor. [Join to the waitlist](http://packagist.com.lo/features/conductor) and wait for approval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to be approved for early access to Conductor. [Join to the waitlist](http://packagist.com.lo/features/conductor) and wait for approval.
```

> - You need a Private Packagist trial or subscription (Cloud or Self-Hosted).

Reviewer: Self-Hosted won't be supported until we have this somewhat stable/final.

- You need to add a workflow to your Continuous Integration platform to run Composer updates, described below.

## First steps

> Once you have a Private Packagist Subscription and Conductor is enabled for your subscription, log into your Private Packagist organization and click on the "Updates" tab in the main navigation.  

Reviewer: This still mentions the need for a subscription. All they require is a Private Packagist organization.

> Conductor will list packages:
>  - added to Private Packagist via synchronization
>  - having a composer.lock file commited to the repository
>  - having the Private Packagist repository added to the composer.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conductor will manage dependencies for packages added to Private Packagist via synchronization that have a composer.lock file committed to the repository.
```

Looking at the list it isn't clear if a package needs to match one or all of the criteria. As we are already working on the third point, I would drop that already.

If you do not see your package, follow the instructions on your organization page to add the custom repository to the composer.json of your package.  

> Most convenient way to set up Conductor is to configure your CI in the Private Packagist UI. The manual steps are outlined below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most convenient way to set up Conductor is to configure your CI in the Private Packagist UI. The manual steps are outlined below:
```
This sounds a bit like Private Packagist provides functionality to configure the CI directly. All we do is list steps that they need to follow to set up CI.

## Create a workflow on your CI

### GitHub Actions

> Create a new GitHub Actions workflow in `.github/workflows/dependency-update.yaml` of your package repository using the template below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new GitHub Actions workflow in `.github/workflows/dependency-update.yaml` of your GitHub repository using the template below:
```
Replacing package repository as this is a bit ambiguous in the Composer world. Do we expect them to use the specific file or can they use any?

Author: They can use any, but always a fan of having this explicitly in documentation to not bloat it with stuff like "you can name it as you like".

CONDUCTOR_GITHUB_ACTIONS_WORKFLOW

1. Adjust the PHP Version used in the "Install PHP" step
2. Commit and push the workflow to your main branch of your package repository

> 3. Review the steps to commit and push to your repository

Reviewer: What does step 3 mean?

Author: I wanted to refer to commit signing

Author: I think I'll remove it for now and we solve commit signing. For those where the commit + push will fail they will review it anyway later on while trouble shooting

Create a secret `COMPOSER_AUTH` with the Composer authentication configuration [as described here](https://getcomposer.org/doc/articles/authentication-for-private-packages.md#authentication-using-the-composer-auth-environment-variable) to access Private Packagist.  
We recommend to create a dedicated authentication token with update access. You can copy and paste the contents for the secret from the Private Packagist UI while creating the token in "Settings" -> "Authentication Tokens". Remove the single quotes around the value.

![Create Authentication Token](/Resources/public/img/docs/conductor/authentication-token.png)

The contents of the variable should look like 

```json

> {"http-basic": {"repo.packagist.com": {"username": "token", "password": "packagist_out_73a81c..." }}}

Reviewer: The screenshot still shows a token

```

> Conductor needs to verify your setup before you can [start receiving Pull Requests](#how-scheduling-works). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conductor needs to [verify your CI setup](#verify-your-ci-setup) before you can start receiving pull requests. 
```
Thinking the important part here is that CI need to be verified.

## How scheduling works

> - Go to your package on the updates tab in your Private Packagist organization 
> - Click on the name of your package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Navigate to the updates tab in your Private Packagist organization 
- Click on the name of your package
```
If we need to specify what to click, maybe the UI isn't clear enough but couldn't really come up with a better verb/selector

Once Conductor schedules a task it sends a payload to your CI platform that triggers the workflow you just added. The payload contains the commands Composer will run to update a group of dependencies from your package.

The workflow consists of several steps:

1. Checkout the code from your repository
2. Set up PHP
3. Run `composer install`
4. Run Composer update commands
5. Commit changed files (composer.lock, ...)
6. Push commits to a new branch (or force push an existing branch)
7. Send the status of the workflow to Private Packagist

If all these steps succeeded, Private Packagist creates a pull request for the just pushed branch. The PR description will contain details about the update and changelogs from your dependencies. Conductor integrates with [Update Review](https://packagist.com/features/update-review) to present a reviewable list of all updated dependencies.

![Conductor Pull Request](https://packagist.com/img/features/auto-updates/merged-PR-for-a-security-updated.png)

Once you reviewed the changes and merged the PR, Conductor will schedule the next task.      

> If you close the PR, the task will be paused and Conductor will schedule the next task. This is the same effect as using the "Pause" button in the UI. Conductor won't attempt to update the dependency to this exact version, but will schedule updates with newer versions.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you close the PR, the task will be paused and Conductor will schedule the next task. This is the same effect as using the "Pause" button in the UI. Conductor won't attempt to update the dependency to this exact version again but will schedule updates with newer versions.  
```

> If you want to, schedule any other task of the list by clicking on its name and using the button "Schedule now to create a PR".  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to schedule any other task in the list, click on its name and use the button "Schedule now to create a PR".  
```

> Tasks fixing security issues have a higher priority. They will be moved to the top of the list and scheduled right away.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks fixing security issues have a higher priority. They will be moved to the top of the list and scheduled right away even if there already is a PR for another task open.
```

> ## Verify your CI setup

Author: There are updates already there, when you open the list. They are in tasks that are "planned" and there is a task on top for the verification.

I am on the fence on this, but since stephan had a related comment, i move it

![Task list with verification task](/Resources/public/img/docs/conductor/verification-task-list.png)

Right now all tasks are waiting for the CI verification task on top of the list. Conductor will not start with the regular schedule until this verification task was successful.
The verification task will only execute `composer update nothing` and will not result in a PR to be sent to your code hosting platform.  

- Click on the task "Verify the continuous integration setup"
- Use the "Schedule now" button to test your setup

> You can see the state of your task and last events for the task. Once the task is executed, watch your CI platform: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the state of your task and the last events for the task. Once the task is executed, watch your CI platform: 
```

You should see a run for the just added workflow. Examine the run if it succeeded.

If it was successful your CI configuration is verified and complete. Conductor will trigger your workflow with the next task in the list. This time it will send a pull request. 

> When you ran into errors, troubleshoot and fix. You can trigger the workflow again by restarting the CI verification task. The restart button is available after the first execution.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run into errors, troubleshoot and fix them. You can trigger the workflow again by restarting the CI verification task. The restart button is available after the first execution.  
```
